docs(tutorial): add tuto penpot (#887)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/deploy-penpot-with-docker-instantapp/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to deploy a self-hosted Penpot Instance using the Docker InstantApp
  description: This page shows you how to deploy a self-hosted Penpot Instance using the Docker InstantApp
content:

>   h1: How to ddeploy a self-hosted Penpot Instance using the Docker InstantApp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: How to deploy a self-hosted Penpot Instance using the Docker InstantApp
```

  paragraph: This page shows you how to deploy a self-hosted Penpot Instance using the Docker InstantApp
tags: penpot docker self-hosted
categories:
  - compute
dates:
  validation: 2022-09-28
  posted: 2022-09-28
---

> Penpot is an open-source design and prototyping platform meant for cross-domain teams. It is completely web based and works with open web standards (SVG). Penpot can run in almost any modern browser, no matter of the underlying operating system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Penpot is an open-source design and prototyping platform designed for cross-domain teams. It is completely web based and works with open web standards (SVG). Penpot can run in almost any modern browser, regardless of the underlying operating system.
```

> Penpot is the an open-source design and prototyping platform meant for cross-domain teams. It is completely web based and works with open web standards (SVG). Penpot can run in almost any modern browser, no matter of the underlying operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Penpot is an open-source design and prototyping platform meant for cross-domain teams. It is completely web based and works with open web standards (SVG). Penpot can run in almost any modern browser, no matter of the underlying operating system.
```

In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy your own Penpot Instance using the Docker [InstantApp](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/tutorials/docker-instantapp/).

## Installing Penpot using Docker Compose 

> 1. In the Scaleway console click **Instances** in the **Compute** section of the navigation bar. Then [deploy](https://console.scaleway.com/instance/servers/create?area=fr-par-1&imageKey=c1b530d8-0ca0-45c4-80db-ba06608287b2&offerName=PLAY2-MICRO) a new Instance using the Docker InstantApp].

Reviewer: Il y a un crochet en trop après InstantApp, or did you want to put a link maybe?

Author: ```suggestion
1. In the Scaleway console click **Instances** in the **Compute** section of the navigation bar. Then [deploy](https://console.scaleway.com/instance/servers/create?area=fr-par-1&imageKey=c1b530d8-0ca0-45c4-80db-ba06608287b2&offerName=PLAY2-MICRO) a new Instance using the Docker InstantApp.
```

> 1. In the Scaleway console click **Instances** in the **Compute** section of the navigation bar. Then [deploy](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/) a new Instance using the [Docker InstantApp](https://console.scaleway.com/instance/servers/create?area=fr-par-1&imageKey=c1b530d8-0ca0-45c4-80db-ba06608287b2&offerName=PLAY2-MICRO).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Instances** in the **Compute** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/organization) side menu. Then [deploy](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/) a new Instance using the [Docker InstantApp](https://console.scaleway.com/instance/servers/create?area=fr-par-1&imageKey=c1b530d8-0ca0-45c4-80db-ba06608287b2&offerName=PLAY2-MICRO).
```

2. Connect to the Instance using [SSH](/compute/instances/how-to/connect-to-instance/): 
    ```
    ssh root@<docker_instance_ip>
    ```

3. Download the Docker configuration from the Penpot repository:

    ```
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/penpot/penpot/main/docker/images/docker-compose.yaml
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/penpot/penpot/main/docker/images/config.env
    ```

4. Open the file containing the environment variables (`config.env`) in a text editor:
    ```
    nano config.env
    ```

5. Set the `PENPOT_PUBLIC_URI` to your Penpot domain. Then save the file and exit the editor.
    ```
    PENPOT_PUBLIC_URI=https://penpot.mydomain.eu
    ```

> 6. Update the APT package cache on your system to make sure to have the latest releases available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Update the APT package cache on your system to make sure you have the latest releases available.
```

    ```
    unlink /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default
    ```

9. Create a Nginx configuration file for the reverse proxy:
    ```
    nano /etc/nginx/sites-available/penpot.configuration
    ```

    Copy the following content into the file, save it and exit the editor.
    ```
    server {
            listen 80;
            listen [::]:80;

            server_name  penpot.mydomain.eu;

            access_log /var/log/nginx/reverse-access.log;
            error_log /var/log/nginx/reverse-error.log;

            location / {
            proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:9001/;
            proxy_http_version 1.1;
            proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
            proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
            proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
            proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
            proxy_set_header X-Forward-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
            proxy_set_header X-Forward-Proto http;
            proxy_set_header X-Nginx-Proxy true;
            proxy_redirect off;
        }
    }
    ```
10. Link the configuration file to enable it with Nginx.
    ```
    ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/penpot.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/penpot.conf
    ```

> 11. Reload Nginx to activate the new configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Reload Nginx to activate the new configuration:
```

Waiting for verification...
Cleaning up challenges
Deploying Certificate to VirtualHost /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/reverse-proxy.conf

Please choose whether or not to redirect HTTP traffic to HTTPS, removing HTTP access.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1: No redirect - Make no further changes to the webserver configuration.
2: Redirect - Make all requests redirect to secure HTTPS access. Choose this for
new sites, or if you're confident your site works on HTTPS. You can undo this
change by editing your web server's configuration.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Select the appropriate number [1-2] then [enter] (press 'c' to cancel): 2
Redirecting all traffic on port 80 to ssl in /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/reverse-proxy.conf

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Congratulations! You have successfully enabled https://your.domain.com

You should test your configuration at:
https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/analyze.html?d=your.domain.com
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
```

## Running Penpot 

> 1. Start Penpot using `docker-compose`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run `docker-compose` to start Penpot:
```

    ```
    docker-compose -p penpot -f docker-compose.yaml up -d
    ```

> 2. Add a Penpot user by running the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the following command to add a Penpot user:
```

    ```
    docker exec -ti penpot-penpot-backend-1 ./manage.sh create-profile
    ```

3. Open a web browser on your local computer and point it to your Penpot domain. The login screen displays.

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-penpot-login.webp" alt="" />

> 4. Enter using the credentials of the previously created user. The Penpot dashboard displays. You can start designing your assets now. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Log in using the credentials of the previously created user. The Penpot dashboard displays. You can now start designing your assets. 
```

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-penpot-dashboard.webp" alt="" />

> Your Penpot Instance is ready now. For a more advanced configation of additional features, refer to the [official documentation](https://help.penpot.app/technical-guide/configuration/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your Penpot Instance is now ready. For a more advanced configuration of additional features, refer to the [official documentation](https://help.penpot.app/technical-guide/configuration/). 
```
